Migration docs v3 to v4 (#1945)
Shopify/polaris-react: documentation/guides/migrating-from-v3-to-v4.md

# Migrating from v3 to v4

> Polaris v4 contains mostly internal changes and has simple migration path. This guide goes through the necessary steps to deal with breaking changes in your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Polaris v4 contains mostly internal changes and has one migration path. This guide goes through the necessary steps to deal with breaking changes in your application.
```

Reviewer: We avoid using the term "simple" because if a newer developer finds the task challenging they may feel frustrated that they didn't find it "simple". We're making an assumption when we use the term. Does "one" migration path work to communicate the message?

Author: ```suggestion
Polaris v4 contains mostly internal changes and has many migration paths. This guide goes through the necessary steps to deal with breaking changes in your application.
```

> Polaris v4 contains mostly internal changes and has simple migration paths. This guide contains multiple steps on how to deal with our breaking changes in your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Polaris v4 contains mostly internal changes and has simple migration path. This guide goes through the necessary steps to deal with breaking changes in your application.
```

> **Note:** This migration guide is for v3 but may apply for v2 as well.

Reviewer: Can we include any info that would let the person know when the guide applies to v2? Just wondering how they would know if it applies

Author: We didn't have a lot of breaking changes in `v3` so a lot of this guide will apply. If you think this could be jarring, we could omit it?

Reviewer: I think the title saying `Migrating from v3 to v4` clarifies what it's for. I'm mainly wondering if folks would want a link to more info about v2 so they can find out why we say "this guide may apply to v2" - I'd like them to have a link or more info so they can figure that out. Unless that's something they should already know?

> 

Reviewer: It would be good to introduce this list with a label. Something like, `Navigation components:`

- [Testing](#testing)
- [API Changes](#api-changes)
  - [AppProvider](#appprovider)
    - [i18n](#i18n)

>   - [Navigation](#navigation)

Reviewer 2: I'd recommend prefixing all of these anchors because for example `#navigation` already exists in the style guide.

Author: Afaik we can't prefix them since they're based on the headers. I'm not 100% positive though, would love to hear how, if there is one 😄

Reviewer 2: Yeah there is! Named anchors should do the trick

    - [iconBody](#icon-body)
  - [ChoiceList](#choicelist)
    - [title](#title)
  - [Card](#card)
    - [secondaryFooterAction](#secondaryfooteraction)
  - [Select](#select)
    - [groups](#groups)
  - [Icon](#icon)
    - [source](source)
    - [untrusted](#untrusted)
- [Removed Exports/Components](#removed-exportscomponents)
  - [WithContext](#withcontext)
  - [WithRef](#withref)
  - [Autocomplete.ComboBox.TextField](#autocompletecomboboxtextfield)
  - [Autocomplete.ComboBox.OptionList](#autocompletecomboboxoptionlist)
  - [Navigation.UserMenu](#navigationusermenu)
  - [Modal.Dialog](#modaldialog)
  - [Tabs.Panel](#tabspanel)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Typescript](#typescript)
  - [Config](#config)
  - [Types](#types)

## Testing

> We've migrated to react new context API as well as restructured our entire context structure. To keep up to date using our test provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’ve migrated to [React’s new context API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) as well as restructured Polaris’ entire context structure to keep up to date using the Polaris test provider.
```

This sentence isn't too easy to understand. I think there's a better way to make this clear but I don't have enough context.

> In v3, you could hook into our context types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In v3, you could hook into Polaris’ context types.
```

> We’ve migrated to [React’s new context API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) while restructuring Polaris’ entire context structure. Using the Polaris test provider will allow you to keep up to date Polaris' internal contexts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve migrated to [React’s new context API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) while restructuring Polaris’ entire context structure. Using the Polaris test provider will allow you to keep up to date Polaris’ internal contexts.
```

Reviewer: Is `React` the right descriptive word to use next to Polaris? Or is it `test provider`?

> We’ve migrated to [React’s new context API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) while restructuring Polaris’ entire context structure. Using the Polaris test provider will allow you to keep up to date Polaris' internal contexts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve migrated to [React’s new context API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) while restructuring Polaris React’s entire context structure. Using the Polaris test provider will allow you to keep up to date Polaris' internal contexts.
```

Reviewer: We always want to use a descriptive word next to "Polaris" to be extra clear about what part of Polaris we're referring to.

> In v3, you could hook into Polaris’ context types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In v3, you could hook into Polaris React’s context types.
```

> **Note:** These examples use enzyme. See [our examples](https://github.com/Shopify/polaris-react/tree/master/examples) for other testing libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** These examples use [Enzyme](https://airbnb.io/enzyme/). Other testing libraries can also be used, as shown in [these examples](https://github.com/Shopify/polaris-react/tree/master/examples).
```

```jsx
// old
import merge from 'lodash/merge';
import {shallow, mount} from 'enzyme';
import {createPolarisContext, polarisContextTypes} from '@shopify/polaris';

function mergeAppProviderOptions(options) {
  const context = createPolarisContext();

  return merge(
    {},
    {
      context,
      childContextTypes: polarisContextTypes,
    },
    options,
  );
}

export function mountWithAppProvider(node, options) {
  return mount(node, mergeAppProviderOptions(options));
}

export function shallowWithAppProvider(node, options) {
  return shallow(node, mergeAppProviderOptions(options)).dive(options);
}
```

> Moving forward you'll want to wrap your code in our test provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Moving forward you'll want to wrap your code in the Polaris test provider.
```

```jsx
// new
import {mount} from 'enzyme';
import {PolarisTestProvider} from '@shopify/polaris';

export function mountWithPolaris(node) {
  return mount<P>(
    <PolarisTestProvider {...context}>{node}</PolarisTestProvider>,
  );
}
```

## API Changes

### AppProvider

#### i18n

> i18n is now a required prop and Polaris includes [many translation](https://github.com/Shopify/polaris-react/blob/master/locales) to support internationalization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
i18n is now a required prop and Polaris includes [many translations](https://github.com/Shopify/polaris-react/blob/master/locales) to support internationalization.
```

```jsx
import fr from '@shopify/polaris/locales/fr.json';
...
<AppProvider i18n={fr}>
...
```

### Navigation

#### iconBody

> <!-- ping ben or andre about this <svg><path d='M17 9h-6V3a1 1 0 1 0-2 0v6H3a1 1 0 1 0 0 2h6v6a1 1 0 1 0 2 0v-6h6a1 1 0 1 0 0-2'  fill-rule='evenodd'/></svg> doesnt seem to work -->

Reviewer 2: cc @amrocha (in case you haven't been pinged yet)

Reviewer 3: @AndrewMusgrave I'm not sure I understand what the issue here is, can you give an example?

Author: I may be using the API wrong but string's dont seem to work for iconBody or icon#source

```jsx
function Playground() {
  const icon =
    "<svg><path d='M17 9h-6V3a1 1 0 1 0-2 0v6H3a1 1 0 1 0 0 2h6v6a1 1 0 1 0 2 0v-6h6a1 1 0 1 0 0-2'  fill-rule='evenodd'/></svg>";
  return (
    <Fragment>
      <Icon source={icon} />
      <Navigation location="/">
        <Navigation.Section
          items={[
            {
              url: '/path/to/place',
              label: 'Products',
              icon,
            },
          ]}
        />
      </Navigation>
    </Fragment>
  );
}
```

Reviewer 3: I think that's just something wrong with the SVG you're using, when I updated it to the following SVG it started working again:
```
<svg viewBox='0 0 20 20' xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'><path d='M10.707 17.707l5-5a.999.999 0 1 0-1.414-1.414L11 14.586V3a1 1 0 1 0-2 0v11.586l-3.293-3.293a.999.999 0 1 0-1.414 1.414l5 5a.999.999 0 0 0 1.414 0' /></svg>
```

Author: TIL: `xmlns` is required for image/svg+xml files which is how we server string icons

Reviewer 3: ah yeah, it needs be XML compliant

  useImperativeHandle(ref, () => ({
    focus: () => {
      inputRef.current.focus();
    },
  }));
  return <input ref={inputRef} {...props} />;
}
const ReffableInput = forwardRef(Input);

function App() {
  const reffableInput = useRef();

  useEffect(() => {
    reffableInput.current.focus();
  }, []);

  return (
    <ReffableInput ref={reffableInput} onFocus={() => console.log('focused')} />
  );
}
```

### Autocomplete.ComboBox.TextField

Use `Autocomplete.TextField` instead.

```jsx
...
const textFieldMarkup = (
  <Autocomplete.TextField
    label="Example"
  />
);
...
```

### Autocomplete.ComboBox.OptionList

Use `OptionList` instead.

```jsx
...
const optionListMarkup = (
  <OptionList
    onChange={() => {}}
    selected={[]}
  />
);
...
```

### Navigation.UserMenu

Use `TopBar.UserMenu` instead

```jsx
const userMenuMarkup = (
  <TopBar.UserMenu
    actions={[]}
    name="Andrew"
    initials="AM"
    open
    onToggle={() => {}}
  />
);
```

### Modal.Dialog/Tabs.Panel

`Dialog` and `Panel` are subcomponents that are used by Polaris to build the respective component and are not intended to be used outside of their component.

## Dependencies

> React/ReactDOM are peer dependencies of Polaris and have been bumped to 16.8.6 to enable the use of hooks. Use `yarn` or `npm` to install a recent version of react.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
React/ReactDOM are peer dependencies of Polaris and have been bumped to 16.8.6 to enable the use of hooks. Use `yarn` or `npm` to install a recent version of React.
```

```bash
# yarn
yarn add react react-dom

# npm

> npm i react react-dom

Reviewer 2: Doesn't this line require `--save-dev` or `--save` by any chance?

Author: Packages installed by npm will be added as dependencies by default `npm i --save X === npm i X`

```

> ## Typescript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## TypeScript
```

### Config

> The method for importing react has changed to use default imports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The method for importing React changed to use default imports.
```

```jsx
// old
import * as React from 'react';

// new
import React from 'react';
```

> Because of this consuming typescript applications must enable [esModuleInterop](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-2-7.html#support-for-import-d-from-cjs-from-commonjs-modules-with---esmoduleinterop) or use the esModuleInterop command line option

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because of this consuming TypeScript applications must enable [esModuleInterop](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-2-7.html#support-for-import-d-from-cjs-from-commonjs-modules-with---esmoduleinterop) or use the esModuleInterop command line option
```

```js
// tsconfig.json
{
  ...
  "compilerOptions": {
    ...
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    ...
  }
}
```

```bash
# CLI
tsc --esModuleInterop ...
```

### Types

> `LinkLikeComponent` type has been removed. Use `AppProviderProps['linkComponent']` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`LinkLikeComponent` type was removed. Use `AppProviderProps['linkComponent']` instead.
```

# Migrating from v3 to v4

Polaris v4 contains mostly internal changes and has many migration paths. This guide goes through the necessary steps to deal with breaking changes in your application.

**Note:** This migration guide is for v3 but may apply for v2 as well.

> - [Testing](#polaris-testing)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Table of contents

- [Testing](#polaris-testing)
```

- [Component API Changes](#polaris-component-api-changes)
  - [AppProvider](#polaris-appprovider)
    - [i18n](#polaris-i18n)
  - [Navigation](#polaris-navigation)
    - [iconBody](#polaris-icon-body)
  - [ChoiceList](#polaris-choicelist)
    - [title](#polaris-title)
  - [Card](#polaris-card)
    - [secondaryFooterAction](#polaris-secondaryfooteraction)
  - [Select](#polaris-select)
    - [groups](#polaris-groups)
  - [Icon](#polaris-icon)
    - [source](#polaris-source)
    - [untrusted](#polaris-untrusted)
- [Removed Exports/Components](#polaris-removed-exportscomponents)
  - [WithContext](#polaris-withcontext)
  - [WithRef](#polaris-withref)
  - [Autocomplete.ComboBox.TextField](#polaris-autocompletecomboboxtextfield)
  - [Autocomplete.ComboBox.OptionList](#polaris-autocompletecomboboxoptionlist)
  - [Navigation.UserMenu](#polaris-navigationusermenu)
  - [Modal.Dialog/Tabs.Panel](#polaris-dialog-panel)
- [Dependencies](#polaris-dependencies)
- [Typescript](#polaris-typescript)
  - [Config](#polaris-config)
  - [Types](#polaris-types)

## Testing <a name="polaris-testing"></a>

> We’ve migrated to [React’s new context API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) while restructuring Polaris React’s entire context structure. Using the Polaris test provider will allow you to keep up to date on Polaris React's internal contexts.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We’ve migrated to [React’s new context API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) while restructuring Polaris React’s entire context structure. Using the `PolarisTestProvider` will allow you to keep up to date on Polaris React's internal contexts.
```

In v3, you could hook into Polaris's context types.

**Note:** These examples use [Enzyme](https://airbnb.io/enzyme/). Other testing libraries can also be used, as shown in [these examples](https://github.com/Shopify/polaris-react/tree/master/examples).

```jsx
// old
import merge from 'lodash/merge';
import {shallow, mount} from 'enzyme';
import {createPolarisContext, polarisContextTypes} from '@shopify/polaris';

function mergeAppProviderOptions(options) {
  const context = createPolarisContext();

  return merge(
    {},
    {
      context,
      childContextTypes: polarisContextTypes,
    },
    options,
  );
}

export function mountWithAppProvider(node, options) {
  return mount(node, mergeAppProviderOptions(options));
}

export function shallowWithAppProvider(node, options) {
  return shallow(node, mergeAppProviderOptions(options)).dive(options);
}
```

> Moving forward you'll want to wrap your code in the Polaris test provider.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Moving forward you'll want to wrap your code in the `PolarisTestProvider`.
```

```jsx
// new
import {mount} from 'enzyme';
import {PolarisTestProvider} from '@shopify/polaris';

export function mountWithPolaris(node) {
  return mount<P>(
    <PolarisTestProvider {...context}>{node}</PolarisTestProvider>,
  );
}
```

## Component API changes <a name="polaris-component-api-changes"></a>

### AppProvider <a name="polaris-appprovider"></a>

#### i18n <a name="polaris-i18n"></a>

> i18n is now a required prop and Polaris includes [many translations](https://github.com/Shopify/polaris-react/blob/master/locales) to support internationalization.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`i18n` is now a required prop and Polaris includes [many translations](https://github.com/Shopify/polaris-react/blob/master/locales) to support internationalization.
```

```jsx
import fr from '@shopify/polaris/locales/fr.json';
...
<AppProvider i18n={fr}>
...
```

### Navigation <a name="polaris-navigation"></a>

#### iconBody <a name="polaris-icon-body"></a>

> <!-- ping ben or andre about this <svg><path d='M17 9h-6V3a1 1 0 1 0-2 0v6H3a1 1 0 1 0 0 2h6v6a1 1 0 1 0 2 0v-6h6a1 1 0 1 0 0-2'  fill-rule='evenodd'/></svg> doesnt seem to work -->

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> Pass a string to the icon prop instead.

Reviewer 4: `iconBody` is now deprecated. Pass a string to the icon prop instead.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Pass a string to the icon prop instead.

```jsx
 const navigationSection = (
    <Navigation.Section
      items={[
        {
          url: '/path/to/place',
          label: 'Products',
          icon: "<svg viewBox='0 0 20 20' xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'><path d='M10.707 17.707l5-5a.999.999 0 1 0-1.414-1.414L11 14.586V3a1 1 0 1 0-2 0v11.586l-3.293-3.293a.999.999 0 1 0-1.414 1.414l5 5a.999.999 0 0 0 1.414 0' /></svg>",
        },
        {
          url: '/path/to/place',
          label: 'Orders',
          icon: OrdersMajorTwotone,
          badge: '15',
        }
      ]}
    />
  );
  ```
```

### ChoiceList <a name="polaris-choicelist"></a>

#### title <a name="polaris-title"></a>

> Title is now a required prop for accessibility concerns, however, it can be hidden with the titleHidden prop to keep your UI the same.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`title` is now a required prop for accessibility concerns, however, it can be hidden with the titleHidden prop to keep your UI the same.
```

`secondaryFooterAction` has been removed in favor of `secondaryFooterActions` which behaves the same expect it'll accept an array of actions.

```jsx
// old
<Card secondaryFooterAction={{content: 'Dismiss'}}>Polaris</Card>

// new
<Card secondaryFooterActions={[{content: 'Dismiss'}]}>Polaris</Card>
```

### Select <a name="polaris-select"></a>

#### groups <a name="polaris-groups"></a>

`groups` has been removed in favor of `options` which accepts `groups` or `options`.

```jsx
const options = [
  {label: 'Today', value: 'today'},
  {label: 'Yesterday', value: 'yesterday'},
  {label: 'Last 7 days', value: 'lastWeek'},
];

const groups = [{title: 'Group', options}];

// old
<Select
  groups={groups}
  ...
/>

// new
<Select
  options={groups}
  ...
/>
```

### Icon <a name="polaris-icon"></a>

#### source <a name="polaris-source"></a>

Support for passing a string into `source` to load bundled icons has been removed. Now you can load icons from `@shopify/polaris-icons`.

```jsx
// old
<Icon source="BUNDLED_ICON_NAME" />

// new
import {AccessibilityMajorMonotone} from '@shopify/polaris-icons';
...
<Icon source={AccessibilityMajorMonotone} />
...
```

> Using a `SvgSource` shaped object has been removed as well to load an icon imported using Shopify's legacy icon loader. You must update sewing-kit to at least v0.82.0 which replaced the legacy loader with using SVGR. Loading a react element as the icon's source has been replaced with accepting a react components that returns an SVG element.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Using a `SvgSource` shaped object has also been removed. You must update sewing-kit to at least v0.82.0 which replaced Shopify's legacy icon loader with using SVGR. Loading a react element as the icon's source has been replaced with accepting a react component that returns an SVG element.
```

> <!-- ping ben / andre -->

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

  useImperativeHandle(ref, () => ({
    focus: () => {
      inputRef.current.focus();
    },
  }));
  return <input ref={inputRef} {...props} />;
}
const ReffableInput = forwardRef(Input);

function App() {
  const reffableInput = useRef();

  useEffect(() => {
    reffableInput.current.focus();
  }, []);

  return (
    <ReffableInput ref={reffableInput} onFocus={() => console.log('focused')} />
  );
}
```

### Autocomplete.ComboBox.TextField <a name="polaris-autocompletecomboboxtextfield"></a>

Use `Autocomplete.TextField` instead.

```jsx
...
const textFieldMarkup = (
  <Autocomplete.TextField
    label="Example"
  />
);
...
```

### Autocomplete.ComboBox.OptionList <a name="polaris-autocompletecomboboxoptionlist"></a>

Use `OptionList` instead.

```jsx
...
const optionListMarkup = (
  <OptionList
    onChange={() => {}}
    selected={[]}
  />
);
...
```

### Navigation.UserMenu <a name="polaris-navigationusermenu"></a>

Use `TopBar.UserMenu` instead

```jsx
const userMenuMarkup = (
  <TopBar.UserMenu
    actions={[]}
    name="Andrew"
    initials="AM"
    open
    onToggle={() => {}}
  />
);
```

### Modal.Dialog/Tabs.Panel <a name="polaris-dialog-panel"></a>

> `Dialog` and `Panel` are subcomponents that are used by Polaris to build the respective component and are not intended to be used outside of their component.

Reviewer 4: Was there a change here or are we simply using this to tell people not to use these outside these components?
